# Zapperment

**Experimental Robot DJ**

An Express server emits MIDI messages to music software that is running on the same machine. 

The music software, Propellerhead Reason, is playing a loop of electronic music with various drum- and
synthesizer tracks.

The audio generated by the music software is streamed to browsers connected to the server. 

A React app provides a user interface in the browser, where listeners can click icons indicating if they like or 
dislike what they hear:

* Applause icon – “I like this part”
* Boo icon - “I don't like this part”
* Drop the bass!
* Louder!
* Chill out!
* Love it!
* WTF?
* Hang the DJ
* Faster!
* Slower!
* Too complicated!
* Totally danceable!
* Raise hands
* Show finger

The data from the user feedback is stored in a Mongo database. 

The express server alters the created MIDI messages every periodically, e.g. every eight bars.

Examples for alterations:

* tempo
* volume
* chord progression
* drum pattern
* melody lines
* bass lines
* track muting
* arpeggio pattern
* synthesizer parameters:
  * filter cutoff frequency
  * filter resonance
  * waveform
  * envelope decay
* effects parameters:
  * dry / wet
  * delay feedback
  * reverb room size
  * distortion

With every alteration, text messages are displayed to users / listeners indicating the type of change.

The alterations are introduced with variable transition times, from zero to the full eight bars.

In the beginning, the alterations are done totally by random. With incoming user feedback and growing data set,
machine learning algorithms are used to improve the music – the alterations and transitions are influcenced
by the user feedback.

Additional data stored with each user feedback:

* number of users currently online
* how long the user has been online so far
* which Propellerhead Reason file was playing at the time
* how the parameter settings were at the time
* how long the transition times for the parameters were at the time

The browser UI provides an administration mode that is available when you log in.

In Admin mode, you can:

* start stop playback
* display messages to connected listeners
* browse a list of “scenes”, i.e. parameter settings for the currently playing Reason file, sorted by popularity
* select scenes to change all parameters at one time

 

